Add a guide for TWIM (#2346)
matrix-org/matrix.org: content/twim-guide.md

+++

> title = "Writing a good \"This week in Matrix\" entry and guidelines"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title = "Writing a good \"This week in Matrix\" entry"
```

+++

This week in Matrix, which usually gets called TWIM, is a concept of posting

> small but precise project updates. The blogpost gets published every friday on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
small but precise project updates. Those updates are collected in a digest, published every Friday on
```

> the [matrix.org blog](/blog/twim) and aims to allow the community to show off their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [matrix.org blog](/blog/twim). It aims to allow the community to show off their
```

progress in the Matrix ecosystem.

## Prerequisites

> With that there are some guidelines you should be aware of before publishing your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some guidelines you should be aware of before publishing your
```

update to TWIM:

> Like all things on matrix.org your Post has to follow and comply with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like all things on matrix.org your post has to follow and comply with the
```

> [Matrix.org Code of Conduct](/legal/code-of-conduct). Additionally the Authors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Matrix.org Code of Conduct](/legal/code-of-conduct). Additionally the authors
```

> hold the right to not accept entries of software which seem potetially dangerous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can decline entries related to dangerous or unethical software.
```

> or unethical. These things also get cleared with T&S as required to get an unbiased
> second opinion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Publishing

For publishing to TWIM all you need is a Matrix account and participate in the
[#thisweekinmatrix:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#thisweekinmatrix:matrix.org)
matrix room.

After joining you should start your post with a mention of the user "TWIM".
Easiest to do this is to use your client's mention completion feature.
After that mention everything contained in the message will be part of the entry.

> If you want to post more than one project please split each into an individual entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to post more than one project please split each into individual entries.
```

Not entirely sure about this one

Author: sounds better to me in your version

Images and other media are supported as well. To add them you should react with
`⭕` on your media file. Please make sure to do this after your entry so it gets added
to the correct entry and not on another project of yours.

## How to make it a good entry

> Making a good entry can have some challanges. Below are some recommendations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Making a good entry can have some challenges. Below are some recommendations
```

> which work well in TWIM and which help the authors to lower their workload when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to help the authors when
```

publishing the post.

### Markdown

The bot expected markdown as part of the plaintext event body. Please use a client which
does send the plaintext as markdown. While we currently accept other formats as well
it will add manual work for the post by a human.

### Do not treat it as a Changelog

Copying a Changelog is easy but not what TWIM is about. Ideally we prefer posts
which are a few paragraphs long outlining features which were added or changed
over a bulletpoint list. This makes it more readable to humans. You may still of course

> link to the changelog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link to the changelog.
```

### Add images or videos

Adding images or a demo to your post can help explaining the feature to other people.
It also can help getting people interested in your project.

### Contact info and Source link

Many times people will ask about things published in TWIM. Often times people will
use the TWIM matrix room itself to do that. However often time it would have been a better
choice to instead ask inside of a project room where the devs are present.

### Correct usage of Headers

As the [TWIM helper bot](https://github.com/haecker-felix/hebbot) takes messages
as verbatism it is helpful to the authors to use the right header level.

We recommend `H3` (`###` in markdown) for the project title and `H4`(`####`in markdown)
for all titles below it. This way there is only minor human interaction necessary or none
at all.

Additionally please do not use headers for links but instead use bold links if you

> want to highlight the links.

Reviewer: We might want to link to https://github.com/matrix-org/twim-config/blob/master/charts/files/config.toml as well?

Author: Ah yes totally forgot about doing that. 🙈

second opinion.

## Publishing

For publishing to TWIM all you need is a Matrix account and participate in the
[#thisweekinmatrix:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#thisweekinmatrix:matrix.org)
matrix room.

After joining you should start your post with a mention of the user "TWIM".
Easiest to do this is to use your client's mention completion feature.
After that mention everything contained in the message will be part of the entry.
If you want to post more than one project please split each into an individual entry.

Images and other media are supported as well. To add them you should react with
`⭕` on your media file. Please make sure to do this after your entry so it gets added
to the correct entry and not on another project of yours.

## How to make it a good entry

Making a good entry can have some challenges. Below are some recommendations
which work well in TWIM and which help the authors to lower their workload when
publishing the post.

### Markdown

The bot expected markdown as part of the plaintext event body. Please use a client which
does send the plaintext as markdown. While we currently accept other formats as well
it will add manual work for the post by a human.

> ### Do not treat it as a Changelog

Reviewer 2: Thank you for adding this. <3 TWIM has recently become a dumping ground of unfiltered changelogs.

Author: Yes. We mostly didnt react on that since we had no guidelines. So this helps with that hopefully.

It also can help getting people interested in your project.

### Contact info and Source link

Many times people will ask about things published in TWIM. Often times people will
use the TWIM matrix room itself to do that. However often time it would have been a better
choice to instead ask inside of a project room where the devs are present.

### Correct usage of Headers

As the [TWIM helper bot](https://github.com/haecker-felix/hebbot) takes messages
as verbatism it is helpful to the authors to use the right header level.

We recommend `H3` (`###` in markdown) for the project title and `H4` (`####`in markdown)
for all titles below it. This way there is only minor human interaction necessary or none
at all.

Additionally please do not use headers for links but instead use bold links if you
want to highlight the links.

### Correct linking

Due to the static site generator matrix.org is using we require bare links to be
surrounded by `<>`. Most matrix clients dont do this. If you are able to add those around
links it would help us.

## Reactions and adding a project to the bot

For regular projects the bot can additionally to emoji reactions also recognise projects.

> This helps because there will be a short project descirption as well as a link to the project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This helps because there will be a short project description as well as a link to the project
```

CI is unhappy
